So a common task with collections
is to loop through the elements of
the collection, and one way that
we can do this is with iterators.
Now, the collection interface
does provide an Iterator for you.
So we are going to use an iterator
to loop through our set of fruit.
So in the collections demo,
let's go to that set demo method,
I'm gonna comment out these other things.
All right, so in this set demo,
Let's, Before any of our print statements,
let's go ahead and add the looping here.
So the way that you get the iterator,
I'm gonna use var,
[LAUGH] and we'll say i = fruits,
the name of the collection, dot iterator.
And now we have an iterator object which
we can use to loop through the fruits.
So the way you would do that
is with a loop of your choice,
while is a good option, especially
with iterators because you wanna say
keep looping while there's
more elements to loop through.
And the iterator provides this
hasNext method that returns a Boolean.
So this basically means,
are there any more elements in the array?
You'll say yes, and
then you carry on, all right?
In order to get to the next
element in the array,
we would use the iterator and
just say next, and
that will give us the next
object in the collection.
All right, so I'm going to comment
out everything after that so
we could just focus right here.
But let's go ahead and run this class and
notice it printed out each
of the fruits that we
added, On a new line.
So before when we printed this out
remember it printed it in square brackets
and it printed essentially
the entire collection or
here is printing the elements,
not the collection itself.
So again, collection provides
iterator method gives you an iterator
the key methods on iterator are hasNext
which you could put in a while loop.
Let you know should I be looking any more,
are there more elements here
that will be a true or false?
And in order to access
the next element you just see
i.next that'll give that to you.
Questions so far?
Okay, I'm gonna uncomment this out.
All right, so the iterator method is
provided by the collection interface.
So it's available on all the collections.
I showed you it on set, but
that same exact code would work on list,
it would also work on queue.
Where it would not work
is on map because again,
map is part of the collection framework,
but it does not inherit from
the collection interface, so
it doesn't have access to that method.
Now we can still do this with map,
we just have to use another technique.
And that is the entrySet method
that exists on the map itself.
So with the other collections we said,
we used the collection name, and
then we said, .iterator,
you don't have dot iterator, but
we do have dot entrySet on a map, okay?
Now given the set,
you can then use the iterator method
to loop through the elements.
So once we have the set,
I say give me an entry set.
What this does is take the map elements
and turn them into a set collection,
and then I'll set,
set inherits from collection interface.
So now you have access
to the iterator method.
Notice my while is the same,
I do i.hasNext here, right?
And then when I wanna get
the next element, I say i.next,
but what am I doing there with
that map entry in parentheses?
Casting, right?
So we've seen this before,
I'm taking the next element,
I'm casting it to a Map.Entry element.
With the map.entry, I now can get the key,
and I can get the value.
So this is not the most fun thing to do,
[LAUGH] It's not
as straightforward as those other
collections, but it is here.
This fortunately is not the only
way to loop through things, but
this is comparable to how iterator works.
>> With this kind of he
looked down upon to like,
>> I would look down upon it probably,
Yeah, I'm pretty certain I would
flag this in a cold review and say,
why are you, [LAUGH] doing this?
Why did you spend your life doing this?
So I'll show you some more effective ways,
[LAUGH] to get to what you need.